# How to create a custom RangeTrackBarControl with multiple tick marks.


<p>Sometimes it is useful to have the capability to edit multiple ranges using a single control. This can be introduced with a custom control – <strong>MultipleRangeTrackBar</strong>.</p><p>In this example we have implemented the following features and functionality:</p><p>    1) The capability to have multiple tick marks within this control.</p><p>    2) The <strong>EditValue </strong>property of this control is a special <strong>RangeList</strong><strong> </strong>class which contains a list of <a href="http://documentation.devexpress.com/#WindowsForms/DevExpressXtraEditorsRepositoryTrackBarRangeMembersTopicAll"><u>TrackBarRange</u></a> instances.</p><p>    3) A couple of methods are intended for  adding, changing and removing ticks:</p><p>        - <strong>AddNewRange</strong>(int minimum, int maximum) – add a new range at a specific position. If it intersects with one of the existing ranges it will not be created.</p><p>        - <strong>AddNewRange</strong>() – add a new range at the (0, 0) position. It has the same behavior as the previous method. </p><p>        - <strong>ChangeValue</strong>(int minimum, int maximum, int index) – changes the value of the thumb by a particular index in the EditValue’s list. The new value will be set to a new TracKBarRange object with a special minimum and maximum. If it intersects with one of the existing ranges it will not be changed.</p><p>        - <strong>ChangeValue</strong>(TrackBarRange range, int index) – The new value will be set to the range parameter. It has the same behavior as the previous method.</p><p>        - <strong>RemoveRange</strong>(int index) – removes the thumb, by a particular index in the EditValue’s list. The first range cannot be deleted. Calling this method with the 0 parameter will do nothing. </p><p>    4) The new <strong>EditValueChanged </strong>and the <strong>EditValueChanging </strong>events fire  after successful completion of any of the above methods. They also fire after changing the EditValue with a new RangeList instance.</p><p>    5) The <strong>Intersect </strong>event with the <strong>IntersectEventArgs </strong>argument. Thumbs cannot be intersected in this control. When an end-user tries to intersect thumbs, this event is raised. This event allows you to specify whether or not a dragged thumb is about to be intersected. The event handler receives an argument of type <strong>IntersectEventArgs </strong>containing data related to this event:</p><p>        - <strong>DraggedThumb </strong>– gets the index of the pair of ticks.</p><p>        - <strong>ThumbType </strong>– gets the value of the ThubmType type that specifies the type of the dragged thumb (ThumbType .Maximum or ThumbType .Minimum).</p><p>        - <strong>Value </strong>– gets the value where this intersection occurs.</p><p>    6) The <strong>ThumbsCount  </strong>property returns the number of thumbs.</p><p>    7) A new method also was added: </p><p> <strong>GetValue</strong>(int index) – returns a TrackBarRange instance, which has a particular index in the EditValue list. </p><p>     The current example shows how we implemented MultipleRangeTrackBar and how to use it.</p>

<br/>


